---
title: 2020
category: "year-in-review"
---

This year really was something, alright.

<div style="text-align: center;">---</div>

I did mention that I had written up a long year-in-review thing on Twitter earlier today, but I feel I should probably give full disclosure here - this is not what I had originally written, because I decided what I had written there was a bit too direct about some of the things I was feeling. It didn't contain much I hadn't publically said already, but some of it wasn't entirely relevant and I could definitely condense it further; so what initially started as an abridged twitter thread of the main points has evolved into this article since I ended up writing more than I expected and I didn't want everyone's feed to be super cluttered by my shenanigans, ha. So you get this. Nevertheless... <!--more-->

<div style="text-align: center;">---</div>

With the COVID-19 pandemic being a thing, it's obviously not been a good time for any of us. While the lockdowns and such probably didn't affect me as much as some people given that I didn't really leave the house much anyway, I wouldn't be surprised if it still had an impact on my mental health, however subtle it may have been, and I definitely haven't had it completly easy, given some, uh... revelations that I had in November 2019.

Some cool things did happen, of course, like running in ESA's Corona Relief event, and the UKSM run I did after that. Also, I think this was the year where I finally actually did that "stream more!!" goal I had continually set myself every year for a while now; that was nice. But other than that and just general speedrunning improvement stuff, I feel like most of my year has been spent thinking about one thing and it's honestly hard to talk about anything else given that it's been such a central topic that my brain has absolutely refused to leave.

I did initially see some positives over it, namely feeling like I finally understood something I think I always knew was there but could never quite figure out what it was, but it's hard to see much good out of it now. Now it's just something I wish I didn't have to deal with.

I think this is partly why some of my other goals for 2020, namely trying to branch out a bit in the speedrunning community and perhaps picking up a new speedgame, didn't end up happening. I haven't even really felt like streaming because of it - I often find myself feeling like that would exacerbate my issues significantly. This is also why I wasn't super motivated to submit to any more marathons recently despite having the inspiration to do so. Not to mention the general lacking motivation I've been struggling with which I assume is likely related.

Unfortunately, however, I don't think I can really do much about it at the moment. I feel like I now understand what the best path is for me to take, but I'm not entirely sure I know how, or if I'm even ready to take it. Sometimes, I question if I have the will to even put in the effort. Sometimes, I wonder if, by the end of it, it'll even be worth it.

But despite this I don't think I can ever feasibly go back to before I had these feelings. I especially realise now that, looking back on 2019, there were actually a lot of things that, in retrospect, make it fairly obvious I was going to realise sooner or later. If I had to pick one thing to comment on about this year that didn't suck, it would be that I've developed a deeper understanding of myself; it's just been difficult to deal with because... well, I suppose it's obvious to anyone who's been paying attention, so I won't comment on it much further for now.

Though in any case, I've already touched upon this in a recent tweet, but I sort of wish I had some kind of idea of what the next year might bring; but unfortunately I don't have a clue. The future feels like a brick wall I can't see over; after a certain point, it just stops. This has always been a problem for me, to be completely honest, but it never felt this immediate. Before, the wall was thousands of miles away; now it's right in front of me. Maybe this should've tipped me off that something was wrong earlier, but I had no way of knowing that.

But like I said before, since I don't really have much idea as to what the future might hold for me, nor do I have any real goals for this year I can think of - though being honest, given my track record, I probably wouldn't actually manage to achieve them anyway, ha - I suppose I'll just have to wait and see what the world has in store for me.

I don't know how things are going to play out in the future. I don't know when I'll be able to do what I think I need to do. But now I understand things I didn't before. Maybe things will get better; maybe they won't. I don't know. But I suppose there's only one way I can find out.

Thank you for reading. I'll see you next year. Probably.

<div style="text-align: center;">---</div>

As a bit of an aside, since I haven't used WordPress in literally forever - I realise this sort of isn't the most fitting first post to sort of introduce this site again, and I don't know if I'll be using it much more, though I ultimately probably should find a use for this blog since I do get the urge to do some longer-form writing once in a blue moon. Nevertheless, I feel this was a better place for this kind of long content than my twitter. I think we can all agree on that, ha. No feed cluttering this time.

<span class="comment">Footnote: This was originally posted on <a href="https://tiyenti.wordpress.com/2021/01/01/2020/">tiyenti.wordpress.com</a>, hence the mention of WordPress here. While this ending paragraph no longer makes sense when mirrored to the GitHub Pages blog, I've kept in in here for the sake of preserving the original text.</span>