---
title: Maybe I should use this more
category: meta
---
Recently, it seems as if there's been some, even if limited, interest in a return to the Ways of Old, where people run their own sites that they themselves have control over instead of relying on social platforms that could vanish under you at any moment like we've been dealing with for the past decade or so; especially with Twitter- I mean, "𝕏 The Everything App"'s gradual deterioation, and the struggle for any single new social media site to really fill the resulting void without collapsing on itself. I'd imagine that this is worth considering even with the interest in decentralized platforms like Mastodon (and Fediverse more generally) or Bluesky; the former of which doesn't have a way to transfer post history when instance hopping in the majority of implementations, and the latter, while it claims to solve that issue (among others), I'm not yet totally sold on its long-term prospects for now until the ecosystem is more developed (and who's to say the ATmosphere won't have it's own issues in the future, anyway? Nothing is perfect.)

Incidentally, it always seems that I like to say "man, I'd really love to do more blogging again", but I never seem to get around to doing so for whatever reason. I guess it feels a lot more commital and permanent to go through the effort of writing a *blog post* rather than just throwing out threads of about 300 characters per post, which is substantially more impulsive and ephermeal. There's nothing technically stopping me from just using a blog as my primary way of posting on the Internet in the same way that I use microblogging services, but it doesn't feel like it's particularly worth the effort if all I'm doing is posting about what I had for breakfast this morning. I guess to some extent this post is an attempt at a statement of intention that I might, for once, actually try to commit to it rather than just saying I want to, although I have no idea how much motivation I'll have for it since it's difficult to find things to write about, I don't particularly know how many people would actually read it (nor am I particularly willing to deal with the content moderation requirements of having a comments section), and it's probably hard to keep up a blog while I'm increasingly just... very tired, and Bluesky and Mastodon are so much less effort to use and maintain, ha.

But... here we are, I guess. I'm not entirely sure how much I'm going to publicize this for now since the few older posts that I already have on here are a few years old and that is well within the timeframe for me to be frankly embarrased about what I've already put up on here, although I'm not sure I want to delete them either... but the point is that I might want to use this a bit before I start publicizing the blogroll, just to bury some of that stuff a little and reflect my more current writing style and opinions. It's easy to get pretty constrained by the format of what you've already posted sometimes...

The last thing on my mind with this is that I guess this isn't exactly "self-hosted" considering that GitHub Pages also itself relies on a company to keep my stuff online, but it's at least trivial for me to take the files and move them to a different host if the need arises. Moreso if I registered a domain name, which I *am* interested in doing, although for a variety of reasons I've kind of been putting it off. I'm aware of a handful of free subdomain services that I've been considering using as a stopgap solution until I figure some stuff out, although I guess relying on someone or some organization providing me a subdomain out of the goodness of their hearts would negate most of the benefits of registering one myself, so I'm not sure if there's much point to that.

But, yeah. I guess you can expect further updates from this blog with *some* degree of regularity in the future? Although I'm still not entirely sure what I'm actually going to post here yet. But, if everything goes to shit, this will still be at least one place where you can find my nonsense.