---
---
# Tiyenti's Computer Setup
A personal favourite topic of mine are what gear content creators use to make their stuff and
why. I want to make a full setup video at some point, but I'm planning some relatively major
changes to my setup soon, and I want to make sure that those changes are "worn in", so to speak,
before I make a video about it. Also, I've been taking a break from content creation for a while
anyway so I don't think it makes a whole lot of sense to do it right now anyway. In the interim,
though, if you were curious about what I use, here's what I got, as well as some commentary
as to why I chose that piece of equipment, or simply discussing something interesting related
to it. I might make a TL;DR version as well at some point that just has the stuff but I wanted
to write, so I wrote lol

It should probably go without saying given the size of my audience, but I do want to clarify
that none of the products I list here were paid advertisements or anything - this actually
is the stuff that I use. At the moment, all of the items I list have either been bought
by myself or for me by someone I know. In the event I do recieve a product for free that I'm
using as part of my setup, I will disclose this information, but it's not something
you've gotta worry about for now. I'm not at that level yet :P

> The equipment listed here is up to date as of **2022-10-11**.  
> The last time I updated the text on this page at all was on **2022-11-10**.  

## The Essential Peripherals
Basically, anything that's necessary for my computer to even be *usable* to begin with,
as well as everything I consider the "core" of my setup that is required for the things
I primarily do.

* **Logitech G502 HERO mouse:**
I had previously been using the OG G502 Proteus Core for about 7 years, recently I decided
that it was time for an uprgade, since the scroll wheel had gotten really loose and I was planning on upgrading other things anyway - although, I ended up getting this mouse *before* some of the other upgrades since it was over half off for a week, and I decided to strike while the iron was hot. I've admittedly heard some bad things about the newer G502 revisions
{% include footnote.html footnote="They're apparently using cheaper/lower quality microswitches now that are more prone to double clicks." %} which initially made me hesitant to get one but
since I like the original mouse so much and didn't really want to change, *and* seeing it was pretty heavily discounted at the time, I decided to go for it. We'll see how it holds up, I guess. I do somewhat dislike the fact they're using a thinner, rubber cord on the new model compared to the braided one of the Core, but it's a relatively minor complaint. I've also seen a lot of complaints about G HUB, but the portable Onboard Memory Manager application works fine enough for basic configuration, so, eh, Non-issue for me; I just won't use the software. I decided to go with the HERO instead of the LIGHTSPEED as it was cheaper and I didn't need
wireless.
* **Razer Sphex mouse mat:**
I've been using this mouse mat for at least 7 years, but not sure of the exact time frame; dunno if I got this one before or after my original G502. I don't really have a reason to get a new one, so yeah. I actually got this one because I went to a physical store to get a mouse pad and the one I wanted wasn't there and I got this one instead. I think it was a good choice though. Unlike most mouse pads it has barely any raised edge off of the desk at all, it's pretty much just an adhesive sticker you slap on your desk. To be specific about what I have, I've got the original, first generation Razer Sphex, but I imagine the V2 and V3 are similar.
* **Corsair K65 RGB keyboard:**
The keyboard I've been using since my first desktop PC, so it's about 7 years old now. I knew I wanted a mechanical keyboard, but I also knew that I wouldn't have a whole lot of space
available, so I sprung for a TKL keyboard. It's been holding up pretty well, although there's a bit of cosmetic damage (some of the RGB LEDs are a little dead and the legend on the keycaps
is a bit scratched). It's got Cherry MX Red switches. That was the only option available on
this keyboard at the time, and without having other switches to test I can't explictly say
this is my preference, although from what I hear it is supposed to be more ideal switches for gaming. I am admittedly interested in MX Blues just for the loudness factor lol, I kinda like having a loud keyboard personally.
* **Audio-Technica ATH-G1 headset:**
My new headset that that I got since my G633 was starting to show its age. I was hoping that this one would be more comfortable, since the G633 *was* a bit uncomfy to wear for long periods, but tbh I'm not sure if it's actually that much better. But, I still kinda needed new headphones anyway since the earpads and cable were detoriating on my old one, I didn't want to buy third-party replacements, and the official spare parts seem to not be being sold anymore. I have to admit, in the mic tests I watched I was not particularly impressed by this headset's microphone, though once I actually got it it didn't *seem* as bad as I thought it was. But I've not actually streamed or anything since I got it, so I haven't got a complete idea just yet. I consider this mostly just a temporary thing anyway since I still want a proper mic setup eventually, but can't really justify that to myself right now given my inactivity - this *should* be good enough for just doing random streams whenever I feel like it until then.
* **Yamaha AG03MK2 mixer/audio interface:**
Alright to be completely honest I don't actually need this *right now*, but, I decided it was worth it to get an external sound card mainly because my onboard sound card drivers(?) seemed to have *really* bad audio latency, and I wanted to avoid any potential issues with electrical interference. {% include footnote.html footnote="I actually thought it had horrible interference problems with my line in port, but that was actually a ground loop issue." %} It's also just nice to have an available XLR input on hand for futureproofing. Went with this one specifically because it had 3.5mm mic and headphone ports, so I could use my headset without needing any adapters {% include footnote.html footnote="A real rarity on professional audio equipment for whatever reason. I mean, I understand the reason is because the standard in the professional field is XLR and quarter-inch, but it's annoying for more consumer orientated gear. Then again, using a 3.5mm microphone with an audio interface is kind of overkill to begin with, so.." %}, along with a 3.5mm aux input, so I can mix in my monitor's headphone output to hear Switch audio or allow for track seperation while recording. 
One issue I do have is the mute button doesn't actually mute the mic. Which is... a strange move, in my opinion, but okay. {% include footnote.html footnote="Okay, well, it DOES mute the microphone if you have the interface to INPUT MIX or LOOPBACK, but that sends everything the going into the audio interface back to the PC, which isn't what I want - I only want the mic signal and not the aux input for my use case. If you have it set to DRY 1-2G which only sends the mic and instrument channels, the only thing it mutes is the zero-latency monitoring, which you can *already* mute with the MIX MINUS toggle above the output dials. And given that the manual expressly calls out this behaviour, it seems to be *by design*. Wack." %} Most audio interfaces don't seem to have mic mute buttons so it's not like this is something I'm missing out on, but it's still stupid. I'd really much rather have a hardware mute toggle over a software one - at least my headset's got an inline mute directly on the cable...
* Oh, and I also had to throw in a cheapo **ground loop isolator** into my audio chain here because connecting an audio cable between the audio interface and my monitor was causing some major interference, taking the form of a constant buzz that got worse if my PC was under load. {% include footnote.html footnote="Which I also got when trying to do the same thing with my onboard sound's line in. The fact that it specifically got worse with GPU activity especially is part of why I figured it was just interference and not a ground loop at first - I wasn't aware that this could still be caused by a ground loop at the time, I thought the only symptom of that was the 50Hz hum or whatever." %} I dunno if these are supposed to be like, a good solution to that problem, but... I mean, it *is* a solution, one which you can buy for like £10 on Amazon. Some people say that they kill bass response, but, idk, tbh I haven't noticed much of a difference... so YMMV, I guess.
* **BenQ Zowie XL2430 primary monitor:** A 24", 144hz, 1080p monitor. It's an alright monitor overall, but it does have some annoying bugs in its software, the most annoying being signal-out-of-range errors when I boot my PC, and changing scaling modes adding a lot of tearing until I re-select a mode and refresh the monitor for some reason. The default color calibration was also hilariously bad, but making it better wasn't super hard. {% include footnote.html footnote="From the Internet, I found that changing the color settings in the OSD to R 95, G 92, B 100 is a significant improvement, but I can't speak for the overall color accuracy as I'm not an expert in that field." %} The issues are mostly minor inconveniences so it's not a huge deal, and it's worth putting up with the annoyance for 144Hz, if nothing else. Obviously it would be preferable to *not* have to deal with them, but, eh. It's not a *huge* problem.
* **Ace K222HQL secondary monitor** Also 1080p but 21.5" and 60hz. This was my original monitor prior to getting my primary monitor. It's basic but it doesn't really need to be any more than that for my secondary monitor (read: Discord viewer). The only issue is Windows doesn't have great support for multiple monitors of differing refresh rates, but as annoying as that is, that's not really the fault of the monitor. If Microsoft could fix their operating system, it'd be completely fine for my purposes.
* **Xbox One Elite Series 1 Controller:** I use this controller to play Distance with. The Elite controller is alright, but god, the bumper design on it is *garbage*, at least on the Series 1; both the left and right bumpers are essentially a single piece of plastic that just bends to hit a switch on either side when you click it. This means the bumpers can break *super* easily, as they have done to me twice now. The first time I just got another controller, the second time I got an aftermarket bumper replacement and replaced them myself. This is a really major issue for a £120 controller, but reportedly the Series 2 version is apparently not as bad. I can't vouch for that, though. I also kind of feel like the Xbox One controller design in general is just too big for my hands, but I kind of feel stuck using this one for Distance since my control scheme relies on the extra paddle buttons on the controller grips; these things are amazing and the only reason I own this controller. I've been saying since the Steam Controller came out that these things ought to be a standard feature, and I'm still mad that this still isn't the case :\| I would rather avoid third party offerings if I can, but I might have to look into them given that not many official controllers offer this feature.

## Additional Things
Anything else in my setup that I think is neat or relevant. This includes things that I
rarely actually need but still have on hand just in case, as well as other controllers
or specialty items that I use for my other "main" games that I don't post about as much.

* **Nintendo Switch Pro Controller:** I use this controller for playing Switch games, I got this day 1 of getting my Switch as I knew the Joy-Cons would not be for me. IMO the Switch controller is honestly probably one of the best official controllers out of the three, although I admittedly have never touched a DualShock 4 or DualSense so my opinion's only two-thirds formed. Some will criticize the lack of analog triggers but I actually much prefer digital triggers and think they are better for almost every situation (and before you ask, yes, the Elite controller has trigger stops, but they are not anywhere near as good as a proper digital button). The Switch Pro also feels a lot better in my hands than the Xbox controller does. If it had the extra back buttons I'd probably use it for Distance tbh, although I have had control stick responsiveness issues due to the stick grinding against the gate, causing dust buildup. (though I've had not any outright *drift*, yet, thankfully).
* **Elgato HD60 S+ capture card:** This is what I use to capture Switch footage, on the relatively rare occasion I do that. I bought it to replace a previous capture card since that thing was super, super old (it only did 30fps and had ~1.5 seconds of capture lag), and also because it had bright and annoying flashing status LEDs so I couldn't just leave it set up, so it was inconvenient to use as well. It also seemed to be broken and was very picky about working properly, despite me never really using it that often. {% include footnote.html footnote="Though now I'm wondering if it was just the PCI-E USB expansion card I plugged it into, because I *also* had issues with my Elgato plugged into the same port. Wonder if it would still work alright if I used a port on my motherboard, it might be the expansion that was busted... or possibly it was my motherboard itself, since I have an X570 board and was not aware of the USB issues those had at that time." %} That last reason is the more pressing reason why I got it, since I was doing some Bowser's Fury speedruns at the time and needed a more reliable capture card for that, but since then I sorta dropped that game and then went on hiatus entirely, so it's not been used as much as I was intending. It's still there and plugged in though so I can easily go boot a game up and stream/record it if I so desire. I've also found a fun secondary use recently, which is just using the OBS fullscreen preview as a way to quickly capture and share Switch screenshots!
* **thnikk Fightboard MX Mirrored keypad:** What I use to play Tetris games on consoles, like Tetris 99. It's essentially a small box style arcade controller, but all the buttons are keyswitches. I decided to buy one as I'm used to playing Tetris on a keyboard, and despite attempting to play with a controller a number of times I could not get the hang of it, so I was pretty stoked when I found this thing (unfortunately a bit late into the T99 life cycle, but oh well). It's definitely more cramped than a normal keyboard, which makes it a bit awkward at times, but it's far more familiar to me than
a gamepad so I do like it. {% include footnote.html footnote="I attribute some of my T99 play being worse than other Tetris games to me not being used to the keypad, but also due to that game's system mechanics (it doesn't have IRS/IHS like Tetris Effect or various fangames/clones which is infuriating.)" %} I specifically got the mirrored version with Cherry MX Red switches to match my ZXC + Arrows controls on my fullsize board. There's also a non-mirrored standard version which is arranged like a typical arcade fight stick, which has both MX and low-profile
switch versions, if you're more into that. Most of my Tetris play is still on PC for now so this is also another one of those things that's neat but doesn't see much use, but it's nice to have in case another console-exclusive Tetris game that I want to play comes along.
* **Mayflash Magic-NS Wireless Contoller Adapter Rev1.2:** The Fightboard doesn't work with the Switch natively so I use this adapter, per the Fightboard seller's reccomendation. Not much to say about it, it does the job fine. The only thing I will say is that I do feel like the Fightboard + Adapter into Switch combo might have a slight amount of input lag, but I'm not sure if that's the fault of the keypad, adapter, or the Switch itself (I know that the Switch does have like 6 frames of inherent input lag in a lot of its games. Not sure if Tetris 99 is one of them, though.)
* **Konami IIDX Entry Model controller:**
Under normal circumstances I might not mention this since I'm not *super* invested into rhythm games, at least not yet, but I feel somewhat obliged to mention it here anyway due to the [sheer adventure in insanity](/2022/08/26/ttt-iidx-entrymodel-problems.html) I had to go through to get this thing working on my main PC. {% include footnote.html footnote="You can see the linked blog post for the full details, but the TL;DR is that there's some kind of firmware incomapbility or something with my hardware, but it works fine in a VM, so I had to end up passing it into VirtualBox and writing a small Python TCP client/server script to use it. It did work fine on another random laptop we have, and on my phone it partially worked (I assume it wasn't getting enough power to function completely as expected), but it didn't work on my actual main tower or my Steam Deck, which, from some discussion I found from someone else who had the same problem, might just be an AMD compatability thing. Weird as hell." %} Anyway, the actual controller's alright. It uses membrane switches, but proper arcade keys might be a bit too noisy for me right now, and the feel of the buttons is honestly not that bad imo. Not sure it's entirely worth the price I paid for it, though, especially with the technical problems I had with it. I bought a used one for more than the retail price {% include footnote.html footnote="It was in pretty good condition though, only a few scuffs here and there. I also didn't have to pay any extra for shipping, so that was nice - just had to pay customs since it was an import." %}, but I'm unsure of what would've been a good price since I know these were only produced in limited quantities. With what I paid for it, I could've spent either about the same or a little more to get a DAO FPS instead, which I think most actual IIDX players would reccomend over this {% include footnote.html footnote="I was actually originally considering an FPS but I decided not to buy one in the end because I wasn't super comfortable ordering from their site. If I could've gotten one from a more established marketplace, I might have still went with that anyway. I realise that they are a trusted seller in the RGC and buying from some random seller on eBay maybe goes contrary to my ideas there but I was more concerned with the sanctity of my bank account details than actually receiving the product to be honest lol" %}. Granted, this should still do me pretty well for a while until I feel it's justified to get a better controller, and I feel less buyer's remorse now that I seem to have gotten it working well with my setup for now.
* **Logitech LS11 speakers:** Stereo speakers, these things are ancient and are basically an old-hand-me-down. They have also been dust collectors for years as I've just been using my headphones for all audio requirements for years now, and I didn't like the green power LED on them that I could only turn off by setting the volume to 0 (which would lose my volume setting) or by unplugging them. I maybe ought to get rid of them at some point since I don't plan on using them for anything, but for now, they're here.
* **Logitech C920 webcam:** I've had this webcam since my first desktop so it's about 7 years old. I have used it a grand total of 3 times. I also heavily regret the times I have used it. So... hasn't really turned out to be the most useful product here, but it's there if I need it, I guess. I doubt I'm going to be using this for a facecam any time soon, but I might use it as a *hand*cam if the use arises for it. At the moment though it's just kinda there.

## The Actual Computer
I'm sure some people would be interested in the actual computer I have, although, I will have
to kill some potential hype in that I didn't actually build this PC myself, I got it from a
system builder. It's not a prebuilt per se, but yeah, I didn't put the things together. As
a result I sorta don't have much actual attachment to it and there's not really a whole lot
of interesting things to say about it, so I'll just give off the important things or anything
interesting I can think to say about it. I still wanna build my own PC eventually, but this
will do for now. {% include footnote.html footnote="Although, getting it from a system builder *is* probably what allowed me to get a 5600x and 3070, which was current gen at the time and apparently very difficult to get a hold of. I'm sorry, custom builders lol" %}

* **ASUS ROG Strix X570-F Gaming motherboard:** Unfortunately, I have yet another casuality to technical problems to mention here - this new PC has unfortunately been giving me quite the headaches. The problem this time is that X570 motherboards apparently are known to have USB connectivity issues, and, well, I was also a victim of this, which I think was always a problem but I didn't actually fully notice it until I got my AG03MK2 and started having audio dropouts to the most random things {% include footnote.html footnote="I first noticed it when changing focus to or from a fullscreen window, but only in certain games, but it seemed that windowed mode was fine, and borderless mode didn't have as many problems but it still could cause issues sometimes, and then I also later found that Print Screen of all things was a consistent trigger for the problems." %}. At first I blamed the interface drivers for it since the Yamaha Steinberg drivers are apparently a bit notorious for having issues, but eventually I realised that I also had issues with my capture card in similar situations, which narrowed it down to this problem. So, that sucks. For now, the PCIEX16_1 == GEN 3 workaround seems to have solved the issues for me. At some point I figure I'll have to do a BIOS update to properly rectify the problem, but, this works and I'm lazy. So not sure when I'll get around to that lol
* **Ryzen 5600x processor**
* **ZOTAC RTX 3070**
* 16GB of **Corsair** RAM, not sure which model off hand.
* **Samsung 970 EVO Plus 500GB SSD**
* **Seagate Barracuda 2TB HDD:** This I actually do have a comment on, in that this drive is an SMR hard drive which means it's bad for recording to, I kept getting "encoder overloaded" errors in OBS and occasional frame stutters/drops in my recordings for a while and could not figure out the issue until I tried recording to my SSD and realised that the footage came out much better there. I'm thinking about getting either a CMR hard drive or dedicated recording SSD at some point so I'm not recording directly to my boot drive. I didn't think that a modern hard drive would actually have any problem with recording video to, especially since the 1TB Toshiba drive in my old PC worked just fine as far as I knew, but I also wasn't aware of the difference between SMR and CMR drives at the time, so, oopsie. Apparently, I'm not the first person to be caught out by this though, so that's some relief, I suppose.
* **Corsair 750w PSU**
* **Corsair** case, forgot the exact one.
* I've also got **Corsair RGB fans** in the front. Just a basic exhaust fan on the back though, which is fine since I don't see that end anyway. Unfortunately even only owning this PC for a year, one of the green LEDs on the front fans is already dying; it seems to be due to dust interference if I had to guess, since it was always alternating between working and not working and after I cleaned the front filter, it seemed to help a bit. RGB LEDs are supposedly notorious for dying like this though so I imagine developing a fault like this isn't too surprising, and it's not a huge problem, but eh. It's a bit annoying. Having fixed LEDs may also be nicer since sometimes the fans blink white because the Corsair lighting service just occasionally breaks and has to reboot sometimes, apparently... dunno what's up with that. Sorta wish they had memory like most RGB peripherals do, but a memory chip is *probably* a bit overkill for a fan.
* CPU cooler is a cooler provided by the system builder I got the PC from.
* I have a **PCI-E USB expansion card** that I put in when buying that I actually only realised upon getting the PC that I didn't actually need - I thought it was required for the front USB ports, based on an incorrect assumption I made looking at what I thought were my old PC's specs that listed I had one already, but I actually didn't, those specs were outdated/inaccurate. It might come in handy at some point, but as the note above about my capture card states, I have had issues with the ports on it not playing nice with some devices, so I'm wondering if it's actually a little broken. I'm also *now* wondering after finding out about the X570 USB issues if *that* was actually the cause of the problems all along - maybe now that I activated that workaround, it'll work better now. But I still don't actually need this. So it doesn't really matter either way.